<b>Abstract:</b> Image classification and segmentation are important tasks in computer vision. ResNet and U-Net are representative networks for image classification and image segmentation, respectively. Although many scholars used to fuse these two networks, most integration focuses on image segmentation with U-Net, overlooking the capabili-ties from ResNet for image classification. In this paper, we propose a novel U-ResNet structure by combining the U-Net’s convolution-deconvolution structure (UBlock) with ResNet’s residual structure (ResBlock) in a parallel manner. This novel parallel structure achieves rapid convergence and high accuracy in image classification and segmentation while also efficiently alleviating the vanishing gradient problem. Specifically, in UBlock, the pixel-level features of an image, in both high and low resolutions, are extracted and processed. In ResBlock, a Selected Upsampling (SU) module is introduced to enhance the performance on low-resolution datasets and an improved Efficient Upsampling Convolutional Block (EUCB*) with channel shuffle mechanism is added before the output from ResBlock to enhance the network convergence. Features from both the ResBlock and UBlock are merged for a better decision making. This architecture out-performed the state-of-the-art (SOTA) models in both image classification and seg-mentation tasks with open-source and private datasets. Functions of individual mod-ules were further verified via ablation test. The superiority also displays strong feasi-bility and potential of our proposed U-ResNet for advanced cross-paradigm tasks in computer vision.
